Three Contemporary Applications for Data!

1) We use weather center data and like weather patterns, wind paths, humidity, precipitation type and frequency to try to predict things like hurricanes. In turn, they use the data from past hurricanes and those new data points to try to predict the severity and the storm path. Subsequently, we can act upon the data by preparing evacuation plans, getting resources collected, etc so that human lives can be out of danger. (Granted if you are the President of the United States you will misinterpret the data and cause panic amongst a population that will remain physically unaffected by the storm.) Citation :(https://edition.cnn.com/2019/09/22/americas/east-grand-bahama-us-medics-and-survivor/index.html)

2) We can use data from test scores, like standardized children's test scores to try to determine short comings of education. I'm thinking about this in terms of small children and determining basic spelling/sentence/writing/math ability. In the state of Colorado we went through CSAP, then TCAP, and then CMAS. These scores didn't place us into particular classes, but it usually factored into how our teachers were promoted/placed in the school system. Math teachers whose students tested poorly in math would go on to teach something else based on the data. (https://www.cde.state.co.us/assessment/coassess-dataandresults)

3) In the case of the economy, Economists can determine the health of an economy based on stocks and things such as the return of government bonds. In those cases, they can suggest expansionary/contractionary policies to either prevent overheating in an economy or try to push for economic growth. There is a place and a time for both expansionary and contractionary policy in terms of monetary and fiscal policy. It is not always the best to continue expanding, as an overheating economy has catastrophic potential. (https://courses.lumenlearning.com/wm-macroeconomics/chapter/expansionary-and-contractionary-fiscal-policy/)
